Feature/recon documentation (#395)
databrickslabs/remorph: docs/README_RECON.md

| **schema**  | reconcile the schema of source and target.<br> - are same if the source is same <br> - its compatible if the source is different | - **schema_comparison**<br>- **schema_difference**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | **row**     | reconcile the data only at row level(hash value of the source row is matched with the hash value of the target)                  | - **missing_in_src**(sample rows in target that are not available in source + sample rows in target that doesn't match with source)<br> - **missing_in_tgt**(sample rows in target that are not available in target + sample rows in source that doesn't match with target)<br>  **NOTE**: the report won't differentiate the mismatch and missing here.                                                                                                                                              |

Reviewer: Can we add "Preferred when there are no JK identified b/w source and target"

Author: done.

> | **data**    | reconcile the data at row and column level- ```primary_keys``` will play the key role here                                       | - **mismatch_data**(the sample data with mismatches captured at each column and row level )<br> - **missing_in_src**(sample rows that are available in target but missing in src)<br> - **missing_in_tgt**(sample rows that are available in source but are missing in target)<br> - **threshold_mismatch**(configured column will be reconciled based on percentile or threshold boundary or date boundary)<br> - **mismatch_columns**(consolidated list of columns that has mismatches in them)<br> |

Reviewer: ```primary_keys```. I think we should call this ```Join_keys``` since in our config we call it JK's

Author: done

| target_name         | string                | name of the target table                                                                                                                                                                                                         | required               | product                                                                                                                        |
| join_columns        | list[string]          | list of column names or column name which acts as primary key to the table                                                                                                                                                       | optional(default=None) | ["product_id"] or ["product_id","order_id"]                                                                                    |

> | jdbc_reader_options | string                | jdbc_reader_option,that helps to parallelize the data read from jdbc sources based on the given configuration.For more info [jdbc_reader_options](#jdbc_reader_options)                                                          | optional(default=None) | "jdbc_reader_options": {"number_partitions": 10,"partition_column": "s_suppkey","upper_bound": "10000000","lower_bound": "10"} |

Reviewer: fetch size is missing in example

Author: done

> | select_columns      | list[string]          | list of columns to be considered for the reconciliation process                                                                                                                                                                  | optional(default=None) | ["id","name","address"]                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: Should we add 
list of columns to be considered for the reconciliation process `as in source table `

Author: this is mentioned in the Do's and Dont's.

> | drop_columns        | list[string]          | list of columns to be eliminated from the reconciliation process                                                                                                                                                                 | optional(default=None) | ["comment"]                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: Should we add
list of columns to be eliminated from the reconciliation process `as in source table `

| column_mapping      | list[ColumnMapping]   | list of column_mapping,that helps in resolving column name mismatch b/w src and tgt eg: "id" in src  and "emp_id" in tgt.For more info [column_mapping](#column_mapping)                                                         | optional(default=None) | "column_mapping": [{"source_name": "id","target_name": "emp_id"}]                                                              |

> | transformations     | list[Transformations] | list of user-defined transformations ,that can be applied on src and tgt columns in case of any incompatibility data types or explicit transformation applied during migration.For more info [transformations](#transformations) | optional(default=None) | "transformations": [{"column_name": "s_address","source": "trim(s_address)","target": "trim(s_address)"}]                      |

Reviewer: We have to mention saying that this transformation should be in source dialect SQL format, and we don't manipulate these at all. we just blindly use them. Either do it here or below

> | thresholds          | list[Thresholds]      | list of threshold conditions, that can be applied on tgt columns to match the minor exceptions in data.It supports percentile,absolute, and date fields.For more info [thresholds](#thresholds)                                  | optional(default=None) | "thresholds": [{"column_name": "sal","lower_bound": "-5%","upper_bound": "5%","type": "integer"}]                              |

Reviewer: Actually there is no `integer` in sqlglot datatypes .. so change it to `int`

Author: done

> | filters             | Filters               | filter expr that can be used to filter the data on src and tgt based on respective expressions                                                                                                                                   | optional(default=None) | "filters" : {"source":"lower(dept_name)>'it'" ,"target" : "lower(department_name)>'it'"}                                       |

Reviewer: We have to mention saying that this filters should be in source dialect SQL format, and we don't manipulate these at all. we just blindly use them on objects. Either do it here or below

Author: added in Key Considerations on Table Config

|-------------|-----------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|--------------------|
| column_name | string    | the column that should be considered for threshold reconciliation                                                                                                            | required                           | "product_discount" |
| lower_bound | string    | the lower bound of the difference between the source value and the target value                                                                                              | optional(default=0)                | -5%                | 
| upper_bound | string    | the upper bound of the difference between the source value and the target value                                                                                              | optional(default=0)                | 5%                 |            

> | type        | string    | user must specify the type of the column. integer is selected for columns of type integer or double, while timestamp is chosen for columns of either date or timestamp types | required("integer" or "timestamp") | "integer"          |

Reviewer: change here `integer` to `int`

> | type        | string    | user must specify the type of the column. integer is selected for columns of type integer or double, while timestamp is chosen for columns of either date or timestamp types | required("integer" or "timestamp") | "integer"          |

Reviewer: Should we say that we support all NUMERIC and TEMPORAL types by SQLGLOT ? @sundarshankar89

1. The column names are always converted to lower case and considered for reconciliation.
2. Currently it doesn't support case insensitivity and doesn't have collation support
3. Table Transformation internally consider the default value as the column value. It doesn't apply any default
   transformations
   if not provided.
   ```eg:Transformation(column_name="address",source_name=None,target_name="trim(s_address)")```
   For the given example,
   the source transformation is None,so the raw value in the source is considered for reconciliation.
4. If no user transformation is provided for a given column in the configuration,by default depending on the source data
   type our reconciler will apply  
   default transformation on both source and target to get the matching hash value in source and target.Please find the
   detailed default transformations here.

**Note:**
The user can override the default behaviour with the user transformations using the configurations if needed.

### Do's and Don't's on Table Config:

1. Always the column reference to be source column names in all the configs,except **Transformations** and **Filters**
   as these

>    are sql expressions ,that are applied directly in the sql.

Reviewer: dialect specific sql expressions

Author: done

# Remorph Reconciliation

Remorph Reconciliation is a library that helps to reconcile the data, post data migration or during the data
migration   

> between the source system and databricks system.It supports multiple types of reconciliation depending upon the user   

Author: done

> requirements and data in the source system.It makes the migration process simpler by removing the complex part of

Author: done

| **schema**  | [schema](report_types_visualisation.md#schema) | reconcile the schema of source and target.<br> - are same if the source is same <br> - its compatible if the source is different                                                          | - **schema_comparison**<br>- **schema_difference**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | **row**     | [row](report_types_visualisation.md#row)       | reconcile the data only at row level(hash value of the source row is matched with the hash value of the target).Preferred when there are no join columns identified b/w source and target.| - **missing_in_src**(sample rows in target that are not available in source + sample rows in target that doesn't match with source)<br> - **missing_in_tgt**(sample rows in target that are not available in target + sample rows in source that doesn't match with target)<br>  **NOTE**: the report won't differentiate the mismatch and missing here.                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **row**     | [row](report_types_visualisation.md#row)       | reconcile the data only at row level(hash value of the source row is matched with the hash value of the target).Preferred when there are no join columns identified between source and target.| - **missing_in_src**(sample rows in target that are not available in source + sample rows in target that doesn't match with source)<br> - **missing_in_tgt**(sample rows in target that are not available in target + sample rows in source that doesn't match with target)<br>  **NOTE**: the report won't differentiate the mismatch and missing here.                                                                                                                                             |
```

Author: done

> | **data**    | [data](report_types_visualisation.md#data)     | reconcile the data at row and column level- ```joining_keys``` will play the key role here                                                                                                | - **mismatch_data**(the sample data with mismatches captured at each column and row level )<br> - **missing_in_src**(sample rows that are available in target but missing in src)<br> - **missing_in_tgt**(sample rows that are available in source but are missing in target)<br> - **threshold_mismatch**(configured column will be reconciled based on percentile or threshold boundary or date boundary)<br> - **mismatch_columns**(consolidated list of columns that has mismatches in them)<br> |

Reviewer 2: ```joining_keys``` will play the key role here .. instead let's directly mention the role here.

Author: done

|-------------|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------|----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| oracle      | number(10,5)  | trim(to_char(coalesce(<col_name>,0.0), ’99990.99999’))                 | cast(coalesce(<col_name>,0.0) as decimal(10,5)) | 1.00                 | 1.00000              | this can be used for any precision and scale by adjusting accordingly in the transformation |
| snowflake   | array         | array_to_string(array_compact(<col_name>),’,’)                         | concat_ws(’,’, <col_name>)                      |                      |                      | in case of removing "undefined" during migration(converts sparse array to dense array)      |
| snowflake   | array         | array_to_string(array_sort(array_compact(<col_name>), true, true),’,’) | concat_ws(’,’, <col_name>)                      |                      |                      | in case of removing "undefined" during migration and want to sort the array                 |

> | snowflake   | timestamp_ntz | date_part(epoch_second,<col_name>)                                     | unix_timestamp(<col_name>)                      |                      |                      | convert timestamp_ntz to epoch for getting a match b/w snowflake and data bricks            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| snowflake   | timestamp_ntz | date_part(epoch_second,<col_name>)                                     | unix_timestamp(<col_name>)                      |                      |                      | convert timestamp_ntz to epoch for getting a match between Snowflake and Databricks            |
```

# Remorph Reconciliation

> 

Reviewer 3: probably need this to be broken down into multiple `markdown` files

migration between the source system and Databricks. Supports multiple types of reconciliation depending on the user
requirements and data in the source system. It simplifies the migration process by removing the complex part of validating 
the data from one system to another and enabling the team to have more insights into the migrated data.

* [Remorph Reconciliation](#remorph-reconciliation)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Types of Report Supported](#types-of-report-supported)
* [Report Type-Flow Chart](#report-type-flow-chart)
* [Supported Source System](#supported-source-system)
* [Dependency CLI commands](#dependency-cli-commands)
* [TABLE Config Elements](#table-config-elements)
   * [jdbc_reader_options](#jdbc_reader_options)
   * [column_mapping](#column_mapping)
   * [transformations](#transformations)
   * [thresholds](#thresholds)
   * [filters](#filters)
   * [Key Considerations](#key-considerations)
* [Reconciliation Examples](#reconciliation-examples)
* [Frequently Asked Questions](#frequently-asked-questions)
   * [Reconciler Questions](#reconciler-questions)
* [Common Error Codes](#common-error-codes)

> ## Installation

Reviewer 3: To be moved inside main readme and then link to this document.

Reviewer: Moved FAQ to main read me

[[back to top](#remorph-reconciliation)]

## Report Type-Flow Chart

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    REPORT_TYPE --> DATA
    REPORT_TYPE --> SCHEMA
    REPORT_TYPE --> ROW
    REPORT_TYPE --> ALL
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    SCHEMA --> SCHEMA_VALIDATION
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    ROW --> MISSING_IN_SRC
    ROW --> MISSING_IN_TGT
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
   DATA --> MISMATCH_ROWS
   DATA --> MISSING_IN_SRC
   DATA --> MISSING_IN_TGT
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    ALL --> MISMATCH_ROWS
    ALL --> MISSING_IN_SRC
    ALL --> MISSING_IN_TGT
    ALL --> SCHEMA_VALIDATION
```
[[back to top](#remorph-reconciliation)]

## Supported Source System

| Source     | Schema | Row | Data | All |
|------------|--------|-----|------|-----|
| Oracle     | Yes    | Yes | Yes  | Yes |
| Snowflake  | Yes    | Yes | Yes  | Yes |
| Databricks | Yes    | Yes | Yes  | Yes |

[[back to top](#remorph-reconciliation)]

> ## Dependency CLI commands

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## How to execute reconcile commands
```

Reviewer: Right now .. its is according to the current signature of the cli.py/reconcile function. We can update when things are done

> 

Reviewer 3: This also need to be part of main readme.md

3. Table Transformation internally considers the default value as the column value. It doesn't apply any default
   transformations
   if not provided.
   ```eg:Transformation(column_name="address",source_name=None,target_name="trim(s_address)")```
   For the given example,
   the source transformation is None, so the raw value in the source is considered for reconciliation.
4. If no user transformation is provided for a given column in the configuration by default, depending on the source
   data
   type, our reconciler will apply  
   default transformation on both source and target to get the matching hash value in source and target. Please find the
   detailed default transformations here.
5. Always the column reference to be source column names in all the configs, except **Transformations** and **Filters**
   as these are dialect-specific SQL expressions that are applied directly in the SQL.
6. **Transformations** and **Filters** are always should be in their respective dialect SQL expressions, and the
   reconciler will not apply any logic
   on top of this.

[[back to top](#remorph-reconciliation)]

# Guidance for Oracle as a source

## Driver

> 1. **Download `ojdbc8.jar` from Oracle:**

Reviewer 3: we have maven co-ordinates, why do they need to download?
https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.oracle.database.jdbc/ojdbc8

Reviewer 3: Can you change the instructions.

Reviewer: I added another point for maven library installation. Let me know if you want to completely remove the download instrcution

***The reconciliation target is always Databricks with UC enabled. Reconciler supports non-uc Databricks only as a
source.***
</details>

<details>
<summary>What would happen if my dataset had duplicate records?</summary>

***Duplicates are not handled in the reconciler. If run with duplicates, it would result in inconsistent output. We can
implement
some workarounds to handle the duplicates, and the solution varies from dataset to dataset.***
</details>

<details>
<summary>Are User Transformations applicable for Schema Validations?</summary>

***No. User Transformations are not applied for Schema Validation.Only select_columns,drop_columns and column_mapping is
valid for schema validation.***
</details>

<details>
<summary>Can we apply Aggregate or multi-column transformations as user transformations?</summary>

***No. Aggregate transformations or multi-column transformations are not supported.***
</details>

<details>
<summary>Does Reconciler support all complex data types?</summary>

***Not all complex data types are supported currently.Reconciler do support UDFs for complex datatypes.Please refer here
for examples.***
</details>

<details>

> <summary>Does Reconciler support `Threshold Validation` for report type as `row`?</summary>

Reviewer 3: @ganeshdogiparthi-db  do we still skip threshold columns during `row` validation?
